So this is a basic note taking app.
Like, you have a list of notes.
You could click them.
You could type something into them.
Hello, Freiburg.
Am I typing this well?
No, I'm typing this terribly.
You could create a new note, and you could filter notes.
And the filtering notes is a pretty slow action.
Like, you see this spinner in the top right corner,
which is like spins forever.
This is not actually a spinner.
There's no data loading.
What this spinner shows you, because you
can't type on my keyboard, because you can't feel
when my laptop is slow, what the spinner shows you
when the page freezes.
So if I type a single letter into the filtering inputs,
you would see that the spinner freezes for a second.
Like, I type a letter, the spinner freezes.
The spinner lags.
I remove a letter, the spinner lags again.
You could use this as a visual indicator of, OK, everything's
terrible.
And yeah, so the filtering input, it's slow.
It feels slow if I'm typing into it.
Or you could see that it's slow thanks to the spinner.
But if I tried to type a bunch of letters once,
it would kind of lag.
And so, OK, so we have a performance issue.
And the first thing that I do whenever
I have a performance issue is I open Chrome DevTools.
And I try to profile that issue in the performance pane.
So let's try just that.
I'm opening Chrome DevTools.
I'm switching to the performance pane.
I'm clicking Record.
I'm reproducing my performance issue,
which is I'm typing a single letter
into this slow filter input.
And I'm stopping the recording.
And so in the recording, I could see quite a few things.
I could see that we have a single spike of CPU activity.
I could see this in the CPU row.
It's the row that's like whenever this row is filled,
you know that the browser is busy doing something.
And if I zoom into this spike of CPU activity
and look into the main pane, I would
see all the functions, all the things that
happened in the browser when this spike of CPU happened.
So I would zoom into this main pane,
and I would look what's happening here.
And I would see that the first thing that happened
was the key press event, because I typed into the input there.
That thing called the text input event,
that called the input event, trigger the input event.
The input event, in turn, called the dispatchDiscreteEvent
function.
And this function, if I open the summary pane,
if I look at the functional location,
I would see that this function comes from React development.
So it's a React function.
And so the dispatchDiscreteEvent function
calls discreteUpdates, which is another React function that
calls discreteUpdates$1, runWithPriority$1.
And so it calls a whole lot.
There's like a huge chain of React functions
all the way to the bottom, like a lot of levels,
all the way until we scroll all the way down
and notice functions having a different color.
And color, in this case, means just
that the function is coming from a different file.
Blue doesn't mean anything significant.
Pink doesn't mean anything significant.
It's just functions coming from different files.
And so if I scroll through this whole array of React functions
and look into what's happening here,
I would see that the functions that are getting called here
are functions like NotesList, ReactMarkdown,
ReactMarkdown, again, ReactMarkdown, a bunch of functions.
And all these functions, if I were a developer,
I would recognize all these functions,
look, they are my React components.
So here's what's happening here.
If I was to profile this a bit more,
if I was to figure out a bit more what's happening here,
I would realize these.